View file size, command is du -sk test.img     (-s means the size k mean data in killobyte and for human readable use option -sh)
  other option is ls -lh 
  
  
  Tar
  Tar  is used to grouped multiple file directories into one file. it is usefull for archiving data. TAR stand for tape archive
  
  tar -c is used to create an archive. -f is used to specify the name of tar file.
  tar -tf is used to see the content of tar file.
  tar -xf is used to extract the content from tar file.
  tar -zcf to compress the tarr ball (it is tar file)to reduce the size
  bcap, zcap are the command to read without uncompressed the file.


Searching for files and directories
    with locate and find command we can find any file. so if we can't find with locate then try updatedb command and again try locate command.


Search with in file
      GREP is used to print line of matching pattern.
      grep second  sample.txt (it is command to search second in sample file and give output for second line)
      grep -i capital sample.txt (to search case sensitive)
      grep -r "third line" /home/puneet    (It serch thirdline in all file under lies in puneet folder and gives output with file name where thirdline is exist  )
      grep -v third sample.txt (-v for not showing patter)
      grep -w (to search for whole word not half)
      grep -A1 (use to numbering the lines before matching word)
      grep -B1 (to print the line using number e;g print line 4) 




IO Redirection
 cat sample.txt - its is a standard input
this is a file (its a output of cat sample.txt command) - its a standard output
can't able to find or directory - its a standard error 


Redirect Stdout
echo $SHELL > shell.txt    (this command overites the content in shell.txt file)
echo $SHELL >> shell.txt    (this will append(add some new lines) new line in shell.txt )

to redirect the error message we use 2>
cat sample.txt 2> shell.txt    (error message would be added to shell.txt and overrites)
cat sample.txt 2>> shell.txt   (to append the error in shell.txt file )




Command line pipies
  we can use for executing two command in once
  command 1  |   Command 2 

with tee command output print to new file e;g
echo $SHELL | tee shell.txt
